# Thesis

###Abstract:
Modelling of reservoir in porous medium conducted in this work aims to contribute to the improvement and the optimization of natural recovery or assisted fluids in porous medium. In this work, we have presented, a theory on reservoir and porous medium also some physical models of reservoir. The models of reservoir in porous medium are generally represented by partial derivative equations systems. These systems of equations are solved by numerical methods according to some parameters and of boundary conditions. For simulations, the difficulties such as, dimensions of reservoir, the taking into account of the miscibility and the compressibility of fluids like thus the heterogeneity of the media are met. In our case, we are interested in a model of reservoir containing an immiscible and incompressible flow, in a homogeneous medium and having applications in hydrogeology and Oil industries. That led to a system of equations given by the conservation laws of mass and by the Darcy’s laws which was solved by analytical method and the finite differences according to the type of model. The first system is obtained by considering a model of capillary tube and is solved analytically. The second system is obtained by considering a model of porous networks, it is solved numerically by the method of finites differences for obtaining models. From this work, it arises that, when all the borders of the reservoir are impermeable, the fluid is trapped there and when the horizontal or vertical borders are at imposed pressures, the fluid moves in a well-known direction in the réservoir.
